# Uber-Dataanalysis
The typical machine learning project life cycle involves defining the problem, building a solution, and measuring the solution's impact on the business. However, before getting started with any machine learning project, it is essential to realize how prevalent the exercise of exploratory data analysis (EDA) is in any machine learning project. 80% of a data scientist’s job is to explore and understand raw data, generate insights by cleaning, wrangling, and analyzing it, and determine whether you can employ machine learning for a given business use case. If the EDA is absent or insufficient, the team’s knowledge of the data is incomplete. Without sufficient understanding of the data, calibration of analytical algorithms, ML models, or creating a compelling product or solution becomes extremely unreliable (if not inapplicable in the real world). It is clear how significant the manual study and analysis of data is for a data scientist and machine learning engineers, AI researchers, and data science students. The motivation, of course, extends to analysis of data from Uber rides as well – especially for Uber executives and consumers.

ABOUT THE DATASET


We will perform data analysis on two types of rider data from Uber. The first dataset contains information about the rides taken by one particular user, and the second contains similar details about the rides taken by Uber users in two cities.
This Kaggle Uber dataset contains information about 1155 rides of a single Uber user in 2016. The features include the trip date, source, destination, distance traveled, and purpose of the trip. This dataset is a good starting point for performing basic EDA. Based on this, we might also be able to generate some insights by relating the data to real-world events and user habits.
